+++
author = "Lorand Fazakas"
title = "Hugo site on a custom domain hosted by GitHub Pages"
date = "2020-03-01"
description = "This article will show you how to host your Hugo generated website on GitHub Pages using a custom domain"
tags = ["hugo", "github-pages", "html"]
categories = ["web", ""]
images  = ["img/2020/03/hugo_and_github.jpg"]
type = "post"
+++

This article offers a sample of basic Markdown syntax that can be used in Hugo content files, also it shows whether basic HTML elements are decorated with CSS in a Hugo theme.
<!--more-->

## Create the repositories and setup the development environment

1. Create a repository named **\<YOUR-PROJECT>** (e.g. blog) on GitHub for Hugo's content and source files
2. Create another repository named **\<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>.github.io** for static content generated by Hugo.
3. ```git clone <YOUR-PROJECT-URL> && cd <YOUR-PROJECT>```
4. Paste your existing Hugo project into the **\<YOUR-PROJECT>** local repository and make sure the website is working properly.
5. ```rm -rf public```to remove the public directory
6. ```git submodule add -b master https://github.com/<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>/<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>.github.io.git public``` 

Now the public directory has the **\<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>.github.io** and all of the other sources have the **\<YOUR-PROJECT>** as the remote origin. 
In order to deploy your site all you have to do is generate it, cd into the public folder and finally commit & push.

## Change the baseurl in your config file
In the config.toml file don't forget to change the baseurl. For example:

    baseurl = "https://<MY-CUSTOM-DOMAIN>.com" 

## Configure custom domain
In order to use custom domain with github pages you have to login to your DNS provider and add **A** records for your domain

Add the below IP addresses as **A** records:

    185.199.108.153
    185.199.109.153
    185.199.110.153
    185.199.111.153

Then go to the **\<YOUR-GITHUB-USERNAME>.github.io** repository, open settings and in the GitHub Pages section modify the custom domain.
If you're using a .dev top-level domain then make sure you check the enforce HTTPS as well. 

(*Note: HTTPS certification can take hours after registering a domain, until then you can't check this box)*


And that's it. Now you have a working website hosted directly from your GitHub repository using a custom domain.
